doc: Introduce a hardware model v2 migration guide (#15963)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/releases_and_maturity/migration/migration_hwmv2.rst

.. _hwmv1_to_v2_migration:

Migrating to the current hardware model
#######################################

The *hardware model* is the manner in which SoCs and boards are named, defined, and used.
Starting with |NCS| version 2.7.0, the hardware model has been overhauled.

> This section describes how to migrate from the hardware model used in |NCS| versions 2.6.0 and earlier (commonly referred to as "hardware model v1")  to the current one (commonly referred to as "hardware model v2").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes how to migrate from the hardware model used in |NCS| versions 2.6.x and earlier (commonly referred to as "hardware model v1")  to the current one (commonly referred to as "hardware model v2").
```

also 2.6.99-cs2

For the complete set of changes introduced, consult the `hardware model v2 commit <Zephyr commit 8dc3f8>`_.

Some non-critical features, enhancements, and improvements of the new hardware model are still in development. Check the `Zephyr hardware model v2 enhancements issue <Zephyr issue #69546>`_ for a complete list.

For |NCS| users that also have out-of-tree boards, the transition from hardware model v1 to hardware model v2 is optional, because |NCS| provides full backwards compatibility for any existing out-of-tree boards.

If you choose not to convert the out-of-tree board, you will receive a warning when building, informing you that the board definition is in the format compatible with hardware model v1.

If you choose to convert your board from hardware model v1 to v2, consult the following pages:

* :ref:`zephyr:hw_support_hierarchy` and the subsequent sections to understand the model in detail.
* Use the `ncs-example-application conversion commit <ncs-example-application commit f9f2da>`_ as an example on how to port a simple board.

> * Additionally, a `conversion script <hwmv2 conversion script>`_ is available and works reliably in many cases (though multi-core SoCs may not be handled entirely).

Reviewer: A note from the UX testing: 

Referring to the PR for HWMv2 migration guide, it refers to a commit for the custom_plank sample converting it to HWMv2 as a reference, which is good. But I miss an example using the conversion script (board_v1_to_v2.py). A simple line showing all the parameters needed to run the script on the custom_plank + an overview of which additional changes are needed after the script has run would be very helpful.   

Could you add something like this?

.. _hwmv1_to_v2_migration:

Migrating to the current hardware model
#######################################

The *hardware model* is the manner in which SoCs and boards are named, defined, and used.
Starting with |NCS| version 2.7.0, the hardware model has been overhauled.

> This section describes how to migrate from the hardware model used in |NCS| versions 2.6.x and earlier (commonly referred to as "hardware model v1")  to the current one (commonly referred to as "hardware model v2").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes how to migrate from the hardware model used in |NCS| versions 2.6.x and earlier (commonly referred to as *hardware model v1*)  to the current one (commonly referred to as "hardware model v2").
```

.. note::
   The current hardware model was introduced in the Zephyr Project shortly after the release of 3.6.0.

> The current hardware model adds support for features like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current hardware model adds support for the following features:
```

> * Support for multi-core, multi-architecture AMP (Asymmetrical Multi Processing) SoCs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Support for multi-core, multi-architecture Asymmetrical Multi Processing (AMP) SoCs.
```

* Support for multi-SoC boards.
* Support for reusing the SoC and board Kconfig trees outside of the Zephyr and |NCS| build system.
* Support for advanced use cases with :ref:`zephyr:sysbuild`.
* Removal of all existing arbitrary and inconsistent uses of Kconfig and folder names.

For more information about the rationale, development, and concepts behind the new model, see the `Zephyr original issue <Zephyr issue #51831>`_, the `Zephyr original Pull Request <Zephyr pull request #50305>`_,.
For the complete set of changes introduced, consult the `hardware model v2 commit <Zephyr commit 8dc3f8>`_.

> Some non-critical features, enhancements, and improvements of the new hardware model are still in development. Check the `Zephyr hardware model v2 enhancements issue <Zephyr issue #69546>`_ for a complete list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some non-critical features, enhancements, and improvements of the new hardware model are still in development.
Check the `Zephyr hardware model v2 enhancements issue <Zephyr issue #69546>`_ for a complete list.
```

> For |NCS| users that also have out-of-tree boards, the transition from hardware model v1 to hardware model v2 is optional, because |NCS| provides full backwards compatibility for any existing out-of-tree boards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For |NCS| users that also have out-of-tree boards, the transition from hardware model v1 to hardware model v2 is optional, because the |NCS| provides full backwards compatibility for any existing out-of-tree boards.
```

> If you choose not to convert the out-of-tree board, you will receive a warning when building, informing you that the board definition is in the format compatible with hardware model v1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you choose not to convert an out-of-tree board, you will receive a warning when building your application, informing you that the board definition is in a format compatible with hardware model v1.
```
What's the exact text of the warning?

If you choose to convert your board from hardware model v1 to v2, consult the following pages:

> * :ref:`zephyr:hw_support_hierarchy` and the subsequent sections to understand the model in detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :ref:`zephyr:hw_support_hierarchy` and the subsequent sections to understand the hardware model in detail.
```

> * Use the `ncs-example-application conversion commit <ncs-example-application commit f9f2da>`_ as an example on how to port a simple board.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `ncs-example-application conversion commit <ncs-example-application commit f9f2da>`_ as an example of how to port a simple board.
```

> * Additionally, a `conversion script <hwmv2 conversion script>`_ is available and works reliably in many cases (though multi-core SoCs may not be handled entirely).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `conversion script page <hwmv2 conversion script>`_,
  The conversion script works reliably in many cases.
  However, multi-core SoCs may not be handled entirely.
```
Do you mean that multicore SoCs might not be handled at all? Or that they might not be handled in full ( or correctly)?

> * The `hardware model v2 commit <Zephyr commit 8dc3f8>`_ contains the full conversion of all existing boards from the old to the current model, so you can use it as a complete conversion reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `hardware model v2 commit <Zephyr commit 8dc3f8>`_, containing the full conversion of all existing boards from the old to the current model, to use as a complete conversion reference.
```

> The `conversion script <hwmv2 conversion script>`_ has built-in help text
> documenting all the parameters it takes. Below is a sample invocation converting
> a hypothetical out-of-tree board ``plank``, based on the nRF52840 and from vendor ``acme``  from the previous hardware model to
> the current using the script. This assumes that you have a repository named
> :file:`my-repo` which has a :file:`boards` folder and which is located at the
> same level as the :file:`nrf` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `conversion script <hwmv2 conversion script>`_ has built-in help text documenting all the parameters it takes.
The following is a sample invocation converting a hypothetical out-of-tree board ``plank`` based on the nRF52840 having ``acme`` as vendor.
It was converted from the previous hardware model to the current one using the script.
```

.. code-block::
   :class: highlight

   $ cd my-repo

>    $ python3 ../zephyr/scripts/utils/board_v1_to_v2.py --board-root boards/ -b plank -s nrf52840 -v acme

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   $ python ../zephyr/scripts/utils/board_v1_to_v2.py --board-root boards/ -b plank -s nrf52840 -v acme
```

python3 should no longer be needed

> 
> This will create a board in the new format in :file:``my-repo/boards/acme/plank``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The script assumes that you have a repository named :file:`my-repo`, having a :file:`boards` folder located at the same level as the :file:`nrf` folder.
The script will create a board in the new format in :file:``my-repo/boards/acme/plank``.
```
